# experiments-with-shapes
It seems to me one the issues with current generative AI is that they function mainly in the image plane and therefore do not respect objects. So objects are often deformed or morph into other objects. Reckon that if the data was presented in a more meaningful way such as objects and the relations between them it can help overcome these issues.

When an artist draws they often start with basic lines and primatives such as circles squares etc. Then they start adding details in iterations till they defined the final object. So thats basicaly what I would like to implement in AI probably as a controlnet. If implemented in 3d with nurb surfaces it is possible to have a scene within which you can move a camera. I did not get very far yet. First need a way to represent objects and thier relations. One script I wrote can shrink an object on a blank background till there only a skeleton left. I still want to make an AI to fit splines to that. Doesn't seem like there any decent spline libraries for python so I wrote a script to draw splines. All primitive objects can be presented as regular points around a center with equal offsets. 3 for triangles 4 for squares etc. The more points the more they approxomate a circle. These points can be moved around to create all sorts of shapes. By using splines it is possible to have round corners and curves without using an excessive amount of points. Now if you were to take one of these shapes and cut them in half and put a line between them so that angles 0 to 180 is on the head and 180 to 360 is on the tail. And then have two spines on either side of of this line fo make an enclosed object this can present objects like snakes and worms. If an object splits like a 'Y' for example it can be represented by 3 objects on a skeleton. Negative objects can be added ontop to represent holes like the hole in a donut which is a negative circle on a circle. But since that makes it possible for objects to be represented in more than one way it may be important to compare objects which can always be done by converting both to pixel space and comparing the overlap. For example a donut can also be represented by a snake eating its own tail.

For example a tree has a trunk, branches and twigs. These are all objects on the structure of a tree. If a child draws a tree they often draw a circle on a line. The circle represents the leaves and the line the trunk. At this level there nothing to diffrentiate it from a lollypop or a balloon for example. These have the same primatives and the same relationship between them. But it is also definately not a car which is made up of diffrent primatives with a diffrent relation between them. At the next itteration the tree will have branches and the lollipop or balloon won't which differentiates these. branches can be represented as lines but lines ultimately just objects thats long and thin. So simple representations of shapes can be used to compare, diffrentiate and refrence the shape and detailed representations for the intricate and subtle details.

The third script I wrote I started to explore making shapes our of points around a centre. I want to train a reinforment learning model to fit these points of a spline to existing shapes on a blank background and this is about how far I got. How well it fits this shape can be determined by how many pixels that should be enclosed is enclosed and how many pixels that shouldn't be enclosed is not enclosed. First i will need to learn more about reinforcement learning. I may very well get busy soon so reckon Id upload this as a backup and get back to in when I have time.
